1) What is a software? What is software engineering?

Software is a set of instruction,data, or programs that tell a computer.
Software is that part of a computer, which can not be touched. Software tell a computer what to do and how to do it. 
Software engineering is a technique through which we can developed or created software for computer systems and any other electronic devices.
Software engineering is a process in which used needs are analyzed and software is designed based on there needs.
In software engineering the development of software using well define scientific principle, method and procedures.
Software engineering build these software and applications by using designing and programing languages.
  In order to create a complex software we should use software engineering technique as well as to reduce the complexility we should use abstraction
and decomposition where abstraction describes only important part of the software and leave irrelevant things for later stage of development so the 
requrement of software be come simple. And decomposition breakdown the software into no of module where each module produces a well define independent task.

2) Explain types of software.
   
     1) system software 
     2) Application software 
     3) Utility software

  1) syatem software :- Syatem software is a software designed to provide a platform to other software. System sotware control and manage the operations
     of copmuter hardware.
     Ex :- Operating system (Windows,Android,Linux etx...)

  2) Application :- The software that helps you to do a specific type of works is called application software.
     Ex :- (Ms word,Excel etc...)

  3) Utility software :- Utility software helps to manage, maintain and control computer resources.
     Ex :- (antivirus software,backup software,Disk tools etc...)  


3) What is SDLC? Explain each phase of SDLC
   SDLC :- The Software Development Life Cycle.
     The software development life cycle is a structtured process that enables the production of high-quality,lowcost software, in the shortest possible
   production time. The goal of the SDLC is to produce superior software that meets and exceeds all customer expectation and demands.
  
  There are 7 step in SDLC.
  
   1) Requirements :- In order understand what requirements are, it is necessary to know why one needs them. Basically, requirements are statements that 
  indicate what a system needs to do in order to provide a capability. Requirements are generally prepared duringg the early stages of a projects system 
  development lifecycle.

   2) Analysis :- An analysis is just the process of breaking something down and figuring out how it works.

   3) Designing :- Design means to create a plan or sketch of something that is going to be made later, especially a plan that details what the finished 
  thing will do and look like. A design is the plan or sketch created as a result of this activity. Design also means to intend something for a specific purpose.
    
   4) Development :- Development is the process of growth of a particular thing.
  In economics it is related to infrastructure, resources including human resource and natural resources.

   5) Testing :- The testing phase of the software development lifecycle is where you focus on investigation and discovery. During the testing phase, 
  developers find out whether their code and programming work according to customer requirements.
  
   6) deployment :- The deployment phase is the final phase of the software development life cycle and puts the product into production. After the project 
  team tests the product and the product passes each testing phase, the product is ready to go live.

   7) Maintenance :- The maintenance phase of the SDLC occurs after the product is in full operation. Maintenance of software can include software upgrades, 
  repairs, and fixes of the software if it breaks.
  Software applications often need to be upgraded or integrated with new systems the customer deploys.


4) What is DFD? Create a DFD diagram on Flipkart

   DFD means "Data flow Diagram".
   It is also known as Bubble chart through which we can represent the flow of data graphically in an information system.
     By using DFD We can easily understand the overall functionality of system because diagram represents the incoming data flow outgoing data flow and stored 
   data in a graphical from.
   It describes how data is processed in a system in them of input and output.
   A DFD model uses a no. of notations or symbol to represent flow of data.


5) What is Flow chart? Create a flowchart to make addition of two numbers
     Flowchart is a symbolic or diagrammatic representation of an algorithm. It uses several geometrical figures to represent the operation, and arrow to show 
   the direction of flow. 


